Let's review an example of the
negative impact silos can have on a supply chain.
The fiscal department from Medical-
Supplies-R-Us, has always focused on immediate goals.
Every year, they have to cut budgets
by 5% for each service line.
This year the cut will result in
the logistics department, medical surgical
budget for supplies, dropping from
two million dollars, to 1.9 million dollars.
The fiscal staff has rolled this
out and it has become an issue.
Because the fiscal department
did not reach out to any of the service lines,
prior to implementing the budget cuts,
they do not know that logistics
has had an increase in requests for orders.
A new community-based outpatient clinic,
or CBOC, has opened in an area
that has limited access to the main hospital.
This CBOC was set-up to support
the VA initiatives of increasing enrollees,
or patients, into the system.
As a result, medical supplies and
equipment are needed to support the day-to-day operations.
Logistics anticipates needing
an increase of 5% to support the patient care initiatives.
Due to the silos that exist between
these two services, there is a
clear gap in expectations, which is going to
directly impact performance and patient care.
If logistics does not get to the
additional funding, they cannot
support the needs of the CBOC.
The equipment and supplies cannot
be purchased to support the mission.
As a result, the patients who live
in rural areas, or areas far away
from the main hospital, will have
a difficult time getting basic medical needs met.
Consequently, it is critical to
break down silos and have good
communication among all parts of the organization.
Instead, develop practices that
require communication and collaboration
among all staff, in order to increase
trust and begin to solve the problems
within the organization.